





                                     TRIPLE YAHTZEE
                                 for the IBMþ compatible








                            A shareware product by Jay French



                                    Table of Contents

Table of Contents
Shareware Information
Necessary Hardware
Rules of Yahtzee
       Description
       Rolling
       Scoring
       Wrapping Up
Playing Triple Yahtzee on the PC
       Getting Started
       The Main Menu
       Scoring
       When You're Done
Credits

       This product may be freely copied and distributed.  No fee is required.  It may
not be sold for profit for any cause.
       A contribution of $10.00 or more from those who enjoy Triple Yahtzee and use
it frequently would be appreciated.  Contributions, as well as any questions or helpful
comments  and suggestions may be mailed to:
                      þ      Jay French
                             33 Ashlee Dr.
                             Peterborough, NH  03458
       Thank you for using Triple Yahtzee and adhering to the requirements above.
                                  Necessary Hardware

Processor: IBMþ compatible PC.
Monitor: Color EGA.
Memory: 256k.
Disk: Hard or Floppy.  File size is about 75000 bytes.


                             Rules of Yahtzee

Description:
       Yahtzee is a game for one or two players.  The players take turns 
rolling a hand of five dice up to three times.  The dice are then scored 
according to their values.  After all the scoring columns and rows are filled, 
the winner may be determined by first adding up the ones column, the twos 
column, and the threes column and then multiplying the three totals by their 
column number and adding the new totals together.

Rolling:
       Each player has three rolls per turn.  The player must  determine which dice to
keep and which to roll after each roll.  

Scoring:
       Their are many possible scoring combinations in Yahtzee.  They will be
described in detail.  If the dice do not meet the qualifications for any of the scoring
categories, a zero must be scored somewhere.  A zero may be                                
scored in any category with less than three columns filled.
These are the categories to chose from:
þ      Aces:  All 1's are added and the total may be scored.
þ      Twos, etc.:  Follow the same procedure as in Aces, adding the appropriate dice
       together.
þ      Three of a Kind:  If there are three or more dice of the same value, the total 
       of all dice may be scored.
þ      Four of a Kind:  If there are four or more dice of the same value, the total of 
       all dice may be scored.
þ      Full House:  A Full House is an array of five numbers with values such that 
       three of the dice share one value, and the other two share another.  If this
       qualification is met, 25 points may be scored.
þ      Small Straight:  A small straight is an array of five numbers such that four of 
       them are sequential.  If this qualification is met, 30 points may be scored.
þ      Large Straight:  A large straight is an array of five numbers such that all of 
       them are sequential.  If this qualification is met, 40 points may be scored.
þ      YAHTZEE:  If all five dice have the same value, 50 points may be scored.
þ      Chance:  In Chance, the total of all dice may be scored, regardless of their 
       values.
       Each category may be used three times.  If all three columns of a category are
filled, the player must chose a different category.
       If a player reaches a total of 63 in the upper section in a certain column, a
bonus of 35 points will be added to the upper section total of that column.  The lower
section is added as it appears on the scorecard, with no available bonuses.

Wrapping Up:

þ      Upper Section Total:  Each column is totaled and the bonus added, if
       applicable.  The total is written at the bottom of the upper section, and under
       the lower section total.
þ      Lower Section Total:  The total of each column is written at the bottom of the
       section.
þ      Grand Total:  The grand total is found by (1) adding the upper section to the 
       lower section for each column and (2) adding the Ones column,  the Twos
       column doubled, and the Threes column tripled.Playing Triple Yahtzee on the PC

Getting Started:
       To begin, press a key after the opening screen comes up.  You will be
prompted to enter the number of players.  Press a "1" for one player and a "2" for
two players.  You do not need to press <Enter> after; the key itself is enough.  You
will then be asked to enter the name(s) of the player(s).  A maximum of 12 characters
is allowed, including letters, numbers, spaces, and most other ASCII characters.  If you
make a mistake entering the names or in the number of players, press "N" at the
prompt: "Is this correct?"  You may then reenter the information.

The Main Menu:
       At the beginning of the game and after each turn you will be brought to the
main menu.  This is where you will roll the dice and select dice to keep or roll.  If
you want to quit the game early, you must be in the main menu.  Help for the main
menu is available by pressing F1.  Help on other topics in the main menu is available
by pressing the correct key while holding the <Alt> key.  To exit any help screen you
must press <Enter>.  There is no help available for the directional (arrow) keys. 
Above the menus the current player's name (if there are two players) and the number
of rolls left will be displayed.

Scoring:
       You may score your dice at any time, but you will be forced to score them
after three rolls.  When you score your dice, you will be brought to the scoring menu. 
Help for the scoring menu is available by pressing F1.  Help for other menu choices
can be viewed by pressing the correct key while holding the <Alt> key.
       Decide how to score the dice and press the appropriate key.  You will be
shown what value will be scored and asked if that value is acceptable.  Press "Y" to
score the shown value, or "N" to return to the scoring menu to make another choice. 
If all three columns of the category chosen have been filled, you will receive an error
message and a beep and will be forced to chose again.  A running total will be kept
and displayed of the upper section so you may see how close you are to 63 points, the
amount needed to earn the 35 point bonus.
       Quit may only be chosen when you have not used all three rolls.  If you wish
to quit the game after your third roll, score the dice and press "Q" to quit.

When You're Done:
       When you have completed a game or have chosen Quit from the menu, all of
the totals will be computed and displayed.  The winning player's name will be
displayed if there are two players and if the game does not end in a tie.  You will be
prompted to press <Enter>, at which time the scoreboard, dice, and menus will be
cleared and the ending screen displayed.  To leave the ending screen, press any key.

                                         Credits

       Yahtzee was written and compiled in Turbo
Pascalþþ by Jay French.  French has received training
in Pascal from Scott Pascoe and Dan Wooster at Bob
Jones University in Greeneville, South Carolina.












----------------------------------------------------
þ Copyright þ 1990 Borland International.
